# Spring

## Spring Bean
* A bean is an object that forms the backbone of a spring application and is managed by the Spring IoC (Inversion of Control) container1.
* The IoC container handles the instantiation, assembly, and management of these beans.
* In simpler terms, a _bean_ is an _object_ that the Spring framework manages automatically.

## IoC (Inversion of Control)
* IoC is a process where an object defines its dependencies without creating them directly.
* Instead, the object delegates the responsibility of constructing its dependencies to an IoC container.
* The IoC container takes care of creating and managing these objects, allowing you to focus on your application’s logic.

Example:
Consider two domain classes: Company and Address.
Normally, we create objects using their constructors:

```
Address address = new Address("High Street", 1000);
Company company = new Company(address);
```

* With Spring beans, we can define these dependencies in a better way using configuration metadata (e.g., XML <bean/> definitions).
* The Spring IoC container will handle the instantiation and wiring of these objects, making it easier to manage dependencies across your application.

## Benefits of Spring Beans:
* Dependency Management: Spring beans allow you to express and manage dependencies between objects.
* Scalability: Managing a large number of objects becomes more manageable.
* Reuse: You can share a single instance of a class across the entire application.
* Lifecycle Management: Spring beans provide hooks for initialization and destruction.
* Autowiring: Beans can be automatically wired together based on their types.
In summary, Spring beans are the building blocks of your application, and the Spring IoC container ensures their proper management and wiring. 


## Annotations

### General Annotations

`@SpringBootApplication` Placed above the main class to denote that your app is in fact, a Spring Boot Application. This is auto-generated.

`@Component` One of the 4 stereotype annotations. Makes a Class a Bean. Typically used in Model classes or anything other than Controllers, Services, or DAOs.


`@Controller` One of the 4 stereotype annotations. Makes a Class a Bean. Typically used in Controller classes. (Often replaced with @RestController in SpringMVC)

`@Service` One of the 4 stereotype annotations. Makes a Class a Bean. Typically used in Service classes.

`@Repository` One of the 4 stereotype annotations. Makes a Class a Bean. Typically used in DAO classes (or DAO Interfaces)



`@ComponentScan` Placed above the main class to tell Spring where to look for Beans (to register in the Spring Container)

`@Autowired` Placed above a Model class's constructor or setter, to denote a dependency for dependency injection (constructor or setter injection, respectively)

`@Scope` Placed above a Bean to define Bean Scope. Default scope is "singleton". we typically only use this to change to "prototype" scope. (Not often in our full stack apps)

```java
@SpringBootApplication
@EntityScan("com.example.models") // For spring to look for DB entities
@ComponentScan("com.example") // to look for beans within com.example and its subpackages
@EnableJpaRepositories("com.revature.daos") // to use JpaRepository in our DAOs
public class ExampleMainClass {} //  
```

---

### Spring MVC

`@RestController` Combination of @Controller and @ResponseBody (Makes a class a Bean, and converts all HTTP Responses to JSON). Preferred in Controller classes since it's Convenient!

`@RequestMapping` Typically placed at the top of a Controller class to denote the base URL - in other words, defines which HTTP Requests can reach it based on their /endpoint 

`@GetMapping` Placed at the top of a method to accept GET Requests

`@PostMapping` Placed at the top of a method to accept POST Requests

`@PutMapping` Placed at the top of a method to accept PUT Requests

`@DeleteMapping` Placed at the top of a method to accept DELETE Requests

`@CrossOrigin` Sets up configurations for Cross Origin Resource Sharing (CORS), which basically means which origins can send requests to our API. Apparently this isn't on QC, but we'll use it later so it's here.

`@ResponseBody` Converts HTTP Response data to JSON. Don't usually need to explicitly use this due to @RestController

`@RequestBody` Converts HTTP Request data to JSON. Typically used in the parameters of a method that's sending data (POST, PUT)
		
`@PathVariable` Gets the data sent in the URI (the endpoint) of an HTTP Request. 
		
`@RequestParam` Does the same thing as @PathVariable, in that it extracts data from the HTTP Request's URL. But it's used in query params

---

### Spring Data

`@EntityScan` Tells Spring to look for DB entities (denoted with @Entity) in a certain package (typically Models)

`@EnableJpaRepositories` Allows the use of JpaRepository in custom Interfaces in a certain package (typically DAOs)

`@Entity` Indicates that a class is intended to be a DB table. Typically a model class

`@Table` Lets us define properties of the DB table, typically used to change the name to a more DB-esque naming convention. (For example "dogs" table instead of "Dog" class)

`@Column` Lets us define properties of a DB column, like name, or constraints (not null, unique, etc.) If you have no attributes to change, you can skip this annotation as fields will automatically be converted to DB columns.

`@Id` Indicates that a field is intended to be the Primary Key of the table

`@GeneratedValue` Always goes hand-in-hand with @Id. Defines how the ID will get generated.

`@ManyToOne` Defines a many-to-one relationship from the "many" side. In other words, the side with the dependency. The child side. The foreign key.

`@JoinColumn` Used with @ManyToOne, indicates which field on the parent table is the primary key.

`@OneToMany` Defines a many-to-one relationship from the "one" side. In other words, the side that acts as the dependency. The parent side.

`@ManyToMany` Defines a many-to-many relationship between two tables. Must be used on both classes in the relationship

`@JoinTable` Always goes hand-in-hand with @ManyToMany. Defines the join table between two tables in a many to many relationship

`@Transactional` Indicates that a method using a Spring Data method should be treated as a transaction.

`@NoRepositoryBean`	Creates an Interface that provides common methods for child repositories. Like making your own version of JpaRepository - not intended to be used directly for DB operations.

`@Query` Used to define a custom JDBC method more explicity with a more SQL-esque syntax

`@Param` Used in @Query methods to pass in parameters

`@Transient` Marks a field as transient, to be ignored by the data store. Transient = not persisted to DB. 